So now we've gotten to the point where we've created as many functions as we had in the job posting.
Now if you're looking at this and you think this is complete Oh it is not complete in the slightest.
There's a lot of things you need to ask yourself.
So really basic questions that a lot of people miss are how does someone log out.
Can they log out.
That's something that people always seem to forget about.
You have to have some kind of power management.
So for instance what happens if a user forgets their password.
Since we're using Facebook logon for this example that's not a great example because everyone knows
their password.
But if you are using e-mail logons How do you reset your e-mail.
What if they forget their email or password.
A lot of people also forget when they say log in with e-mail address.
OK that's nice but at the same time you have to then say they have to have a registration screen.
How do they register.
And on the registration screen what's on it.
I mean do we have a caption that makes sure that they're not a robot.
Do we have in-depth information about them.
Do we ask their birth date do we to validate their birthday.
Do we need to validate their e-mail address.
Do we need to send them one of those e-mails to verify that this is in fact their e-mail address.
These are all things that you need to think of.
And since we are all so used to using the Internet and using applications to do things we don't think
about very often.
But these are things that you just keep in mind to make sure that you're not missing.
This one is one of the most common that I always see people forget and we get estimates here at Sprint.
I would say 90 percent of people forget this.
What do you as an administrator need to be able to do with the app app information.
Now what do I mean by that.
You have users.
How do you handle these users.
How do you know how many users you have.
How do you delete users that are being abusive or spamming your system.
How do you fix errors that if there's an error that pops up in your application.
These are all things that you should consider and consider ways of not only remedying them but you also
need to think of all of the things as you as a business manager might need to do or might need to fix
or might need to accommodate.
Now this is what I'm referring to when I say what's an admin panel what goes on my admin panel the admin
panel is typically the page that the site owner or the app owner will go to to not only check the health
of their application but to do basic tasks delete users change information for users update users be
able to monitor how many messages they're going through how many matches have been made.
These are all internal statistics for you as a business owner or product manager.
So I would summarize it as.
What do you as the manager need to be able to do.
Now keep in mind having an Administration panel adds a lot of kind of heft to the estimate.
So if you need something really simple make sure that is really simple but it's just really important
that you do think about what you need and you make sure that you're not accidentally leaving something
out.
So if you're still kind of wondering what exactly an Administration panel is if you guys have ever used
WordPress when you log into WordPress to create pages or add images or change information that's an
Administration panel.
OK.
And so now we've been reminded about the Administration panel we might want to add that as a function
so be able to see total number of users in the system.
Able to reach users so well keep that simple that's relatively simple.
You could even go so far as to say need to have password or authentication in order to log in to my
Administration panel because you don't want people accidentally accessing it and then screwing with
your system.
But you want to keep it simple just keep it simple OK.
Now what.
Now we need to think about this.
Now that I'm someone who's in this application I put in all my information.
OK so now I see four to five matches per day I'm logged in the application.
Now what we need to make sure that we're not forgetting about all the functions that happen after that
fact.
How do I message them how do I view them.
Do they have a profile page.
I really don't.
I don't know.
So it's up to you to kind of determine what exactly would that happen after this point I could say clicking
on a user shows me a page of page displaying there.
She say their questionnaire answers questionnaire answers and their photo.
OK.
Now here's one thing with photos.
How do you view the photos it literally just on your screen.
What happens to be clicked the photo.
Can I see a zoomed in version.
Ok that might be logical I think that clicking on profile photo will zoom in and display it.
Display it.
It's a light box.
OK.
If you're not familiar with the light boxes or light boxes when you're looking at an image it displays
the image from the forefront above the page of the app or whatever you're using and then it fades out
the background.
That's what a lightbox is it kind of is like that theater view that you have in YouTube.
OK.
So now we probably need to include something along the lines of messaging something along the lines
of something to entice them to message the other person and we could say something like answers to each
question.
Have plus or minus icons next to them.
These icons late to whether or not that user's preferences are similar.
Now you might need to be able to define this a little bit more.
A good developer will read this and ask you specifically do I get a plus if it's an 8 and an 8.
Or do I get a plus if it's a 6 and an 8.
How does that work.
What are the boundaries.
You could easily display.
Explain that.
I don't really need to get into it but make sure that you do at least give a sentence about it say maybe
as long as their answer is within three plus or minus you get a positive if that's not it's a minus.
OK then last thing we want to do is be able to message the person and let's just be lazy we'll just
say clicking the message is the same always and and
OK so here's what's going to happen.
It's a little sketchy but I'm just making this up as we go so well as you say there's a message button
on the person's profile if they like them they want to contact a message.
It populates a text message in a pre-filled message.
And that message is always going to be the same except that it's going to use the original user's name
so it'll say David was viewing your profile and is interested or David says hi or something along those
lines.
You would probably want to specify those out.
Now here I might own as display something like the phone number never displays.
It's actually a randomized phone number.
And here's my essay that I want to use as a tool to handle this.
There's a lot of different things you can say but the point is that you want to list off as much as
you possibly can.
OK so we've just on the first go with this I just kind of went through the user and I tried to just
list off everything I could think of that they'd run into as they went through it's a very simple application.
There's some things that I always see that I've left off right.
Uploading a profile photo.
How does that work exactly when I upload a profile photo does it resize it.
Do they have to cross the photo.
Where do they get the photo from.
Can they pull the photo from the Internet.
Can they pull it off their phone.
Can they get it from their Facebook.
There's a lot of different ways you can do that.
Never underestimate the power of details.
Never get to a point where you think OK I've completely left everything out because there's always something
you might have left out.
OK so this is a pretty good example of what your function sheet should look like if you guys have any
trouble writing this function section or the scope section.
Just let me know and send me a message or put it in the group discussion.
Longer is better.
And I think also though as you start writing this out you might realize that a lot of these you don't
actually need it so it's always good to go back and do some cleaning and get rid of the things you think
are superfluous and might just jack up the price.
So focus on being as comprehensive as possible.
Don't forget basic mistakes like how do you log in log out.
How do I access basic information about myself.
You know things like do have a Terms of Agreement and a privacy policy.
How do they contact an administrator if there's a problem.
How do they contact me.
Does that link to my Web site.
Do I have an administration panel.
What happens if they forget their e-mail in their password.
What exactly do I need to control.
How do I handle images things like that.
There are a lot of things that are very mundane that you just might run into that you just never thought
of.
And I always do suggest opening up an application someone else's application and going through it and
just taking a mental note of everything that you run into.
There's a lot of these things that fade into the background like intermediate screens.
Do we have loading screens.
Do we have explanation screens have welcome screens things like that.
OK guys like I said if you need help with any of this stuff post just post in the group discussion.
Now we're going to move onto the pages section.